A1: Can understand and use familiar everyday expressions and very basic phrases aimed at the satisfaction of needs of a concrete type.
Can introduce themself and others and can ask and answer questions about personal details such as where they live, people they know and things they have.
Can interact in a simple way provided the other person speaks slowly and is prepared to help.

A2: Can understand sentences and frequently used expressions related to areas of most immediate relevance (e.g. very basic personal and family information, shopping, local geography, employment).
Can communicate in simple and routine tasks requiring a simple and direct exchange of information on familiar and routine matters.

B1: Can understand the main points of clear standard input on familiar matters regularly encountered in work, school, leisure etc.
Can deal with most situations likely to arise whilst travelling in an area where the language is spoken.
Can produce simple connected text on topics which are familiar or of personal interest.  Can describe experiences, events, hopes, dreams, ambitions, opinions.

B2: Can understand the main ideas of complex text on both concrete and abstract topics, including technical discussions in their field of specialisation.
Can interact with a degree of fluency that makes interaction with native speakers quite possible without strain for either party.
Can produce a clear, detailed text on a wide variety of subjects and explain a viewpoint on a topical issue.

C1: Can understand a wide range of demanding, longer texts and recognise implicit meaning.
Can express themself fluently and spontaneously without much obvious searching for expressions.
Can use language flexibly and effectively for social, academic and professional purposes. Can produce clear, well-structured text on complex subjects.

C2: Can understand with ease virtually everything heard or read.
Can summarise information from different spoken and written sources, reconstructing arguments and accounts in a coherent presentation.
Can express themself spontaneously, very fluently and precisely, differentiating finer shades of meaning even in more complex situations.
